[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm radio and television
host Jimmy Church,
and I'm here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Randall
Carlson, a geological explorer
and an expert in
esoteric symbolism.
>> There have been successive
events that would completely
remodel the surface
of this planet.
>> Technical assistant, Josh.
Josh, can you pull up the map?
>> Yep.
>> Also joins us to
help set the scenes.
Join us as we deep dive to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
>> Something's going to
happen that's going to trigger
an awakening that our planet
is part of a cosmic ecosystem.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Welcome to "Into The Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
And today, Randall Carlson
is here, geological explorer,
researcher into sacred
geometry for many, many years.
I've had a lot of
conversations with Randall,
and I like to affectionately
refer to him, Josh,
as the beard of knowledge.
>> I love it.
>> Today is a serious situation
where we really get to explore
and get our knowledge on.
Are you ready for this?
>> Oh, I'm so ready.
Randall, I'm a big
fan of your work.
I think I've listened to you
talk for like 10 to 20 hours.
I feel like I already
know you, and this
is going to be awesome.
>> Yeah.
>> Randall, welcome.
>> Well, thanks for
having me, Jimmy.
>> And here's the thing,
the suppression of knowledge
and what we are taught today,
you do the exact opposite
of that, where you are
trying to expand out,
get outside of the box, and
try to figure out the hidden
history that we are not
taught, and I want to thank you
for that.
But before we get
started, how many
ancient civilizations that
had a technical base to them
existed before 3,000 BC?
>> Well, you're asking the
fundamental question right
there, and I think it's
a wide open question.
Here's the thing I
like to point out--
we're finding modern
human skeletons
that are now robustly dated
to 180 to 200,000 years old.
So you're looking at thousands
of generations of humans
before recorded history.
And I also like to point out
that if you consider just,
say, since in the last three
centuries how far we have
evolved as a technological
industrial civilization,
and then you try to imagine
how three centuries could
be lost within the thousands
of years that go back.
And what I'm trying
to say is that I
don't come to the table with
any definitive information,
only a lot of
circumstantial evidence
that there was a whole lot more
going on in prehistory than has
been recognized by mainstream
academia and mainstream
science.
That's kind of where
I'm coming from.
I also point out when the
standard model of history
is put forward that one of the
refrains that you hear over
and over again is the paucity
of artifacts and evidence
that you can pick up
and hold in your hands.
So yeah, here was
somebody creating pottery
10,000 years ago,
20,000 years ago, 30,000
or whatever the case may be.
And it came to my
realization, oh, probably
at least a quarter
century ago was
that in the
continuum of history,
if we go back beyond
what we think of history,
deep into prehistory,
the deep history
of the human species
on Earth, what we find
is that there have been
successive events that
would completely remodel
the surface of this planet.
>> Cover up?
>> Cover up, destroy, bury.
And some of what we're
going to talk about today
is looking at one of the
most recent events that
affected the entire continent.
And what most people
are not aware of who
think about these things is
the magnitude and intensity
of some of these events,
these massive upheavals that
have affected this planet.
And that's what I'm trying
to bring to the table.
So I'm going to
be leading a tour,
and I'm going to take 50
people up into the Great Flood
lands of the Pacific Northwest.
Now, there's a group of
features up there called
the Channeled Scablands.
One of the magnificent features
of the Channeled Scablands
is called Grand Coulee,
from which Grand Coulee
Dam gets its name, the largest
concrete structure in North
America.
Well, Grand Coulee is a 52 mile
long gash in the basalt bedrock
that's nearly 1,000 feet deep.
It's from one to
five miles wide,
and we generally think
of something like that
as taking millions of years
or at least perhaps hundreds
of thousands of years.
In this case, we're
talking about an event that
may have taken a
couple of weeks,
with flows on the
order of 300 to 400
million cubic feet per second.
Now, to give you some--
>> How many miles
an hour is that?
Hold on a minute.
>> You're looking at
in that situation,
you're probably looking
at 50 miles an hour,
which is much faster than
any river on Earth today.
Now, to give you some kind
of context for understanding
that, if you took the flow that
just created that one flood
channel, if you took
the flow, the combined
flow of every single river on
Earth from every continent--
all the big ones, all the little
ones, all the ones in between,
added them all
together, you're still
not even 10% of the flow that
created Grand Coulee, and that
was just one flow of
dozens of gigantic flows
that were part of
this transition out
of the former world
age, which geologists
would call the late Pleistocene,
into the modern age,
the modern geological epoch,
which is called the Holocene.
And it is within the roughly
11,600 years of the Holocene
that basically
modern history began.
We look back 8,000
to 10,000 years ago
and we see the
domestication of animals.
We see the dispersion
of languages.
We see the first
urban complexes.
Multiple things that we
think of as being the genesis
of modern civilization.
I contend that we should
look at that as perhaps
a rebooting of civilization.
>> That has happened
multiple times in the past.
>> Yes it could have happened
Because within the last
quarter million years,
there have been a
succession of glacial ages
that have come and gone, that
the onset of the glacial age,
the termination of a glacial age
can be profoundly catastrophic.
>> Well, let's establish
something here.
The repeated dogma, and I
always use the word dogma
because you repeat
something often enough,
it becomes a truth.
>> Right.
>> 3,000 BC is it.
There was nothing before.
Don't talk to us about
anything before 3,000 BC.
We have ancient Sumer,
we have ancient Egypt,
and the dawn of civilization
was right there at 3,000 BC.
If something else pops
up, give us a call,
but right now it's 3,000 BC.
This number this, 10,500 BC
number, 11,500 years ago,
12,000 years ago
from present day
is now present in just
about every continent
and every civilization
right now on Earth.
Which brings me to Gobekli Tepe.
Gobekli Tepe is 7,000 years
before this 3,000 BC number,
and it is evidence of an
ancient advanced civilization,
and that clearly says things
aren't what they seem,
and it goes back to
this 10,500 BC number
that you just referred to here.
>> Yeah.
>> Is Gobekli Tepe just
that, evidence of an advanced
civilization?
>> Well, it certainly is more
advanced than the conventional
models, the dogmas would
recognize and admit.
But there it is.
You can't dispute it.
And it shows a tremendous
level of social organization
that would be in my mind
beyond the capabilities
of a nomadic hunter/gatherer
tribe or even subsistence
farmers.
It's like so many of the ancient
artifacts or great structures.
You have to ask, why
would subsistence farmers
or nomadic hunter/gatherers find
the time or even the motivation
to create these tremendous
structures that we find
all over the ancient world?
I contend that the youngest
dating of Gobekli Tepe--
and it could be much
older than this.
It's about 11,500 years--
>> Right.
>> Coincides exactly with the
end of the so-called Younger
Dryas 3,500-year episode that
essentially brought the great
Ice Age to an end.
And the Younger
Dryas began around
12,900 years ago with a
possible cosmic impact,
a possible solar event.
I think it could have involved--
I think there's actually not
just one single catastrophe
but a succession.
I think we're actually looking
at the end of the last Ice Age.
We're looking at a cluster
of catastrophic events
that could have
involved the sun.
One of the interesting
things is that we've now have
been observing the sun since
the '90s with satellite
surveys of the sun
and discovering
that it's a lot more variable
than was previously recognized.
Generally, the
model of the sun was
based upon this idea
of the solar constant,
and it may not be
nearly as constant
as the early
assumptions recognized.
And so the thing that
to me is interesting
is that there is a family of
comets called the Great Sun
Grazers, and others
that usually when
a comet comes into the
inner solar system,
it goes through a life cycle.
It comes from deep
space, where it's
almost like in hyper sleep.
It's in deep freeze.
As it comes in to the
inner solar system,
it begins coming into the
realm of the giant planets
and then towards the
sun, it becomes active,
and it begins to outgassing.
And then it's like it wakes
up from its hibernation
and begins to go through
this whole cycle.
Eventually what it does
is it will disintegrate.
A comet nucleus is a
very friable object,
and it will easily
get ripped apart.
We saw this in 1994 with
the Shoemaker-Levy 9,
which was discovered
in March of '93--
March of '93, and it had just
made a close grazing passage
of Jupiter, and Jupiter's
intense gravity field
ripped one comet nucleus
into 21 separate nuclei.
That chain of pearls as it was
called, passed around the sun.
And then as it
made its next pass
around the Jovian or Jupiter
orbit, it slammed into Jupiter.
>> Impacted one after another.
>> One after another, right.
OK, so now if it
had missed Jupiter
but had made another
close grazing pass,
those 21 probably would
have further disintegrated.
What it would have ultimately
led to is a meteor stream.
And so all the
great meteor streams
that we recognize, from the
draconids to the Leonids
to the Taurids to the
Geminids and so forth all
had progenitor comets.
Now, there's an idea that is
gaining momentum that somewhere
between 20,000 and
30,000 years ago,
probably associated
with the onset of what's
called the late glacial
maximum, the planet
was plunged into
this brutal cold.
It may have been triggered
by a large, huge progenitor
comet coming into the
inner solar system.
We're talking about one that
might be 60 to 100 miles
in diameter or greater.
This comet nucleus
then began to undergo
a hierarchy of
disintegration, littering
the inner solar
system with debris.
Earth may have encountered the
debris, macroscale stuff that
could have been
kilometers in diameter
or even microscale stuff that
had been like the dust that's
generated from this.
Each of these kinds
of things could
have had different effects.
An impact of a macroscale
object like, say,
something that's half
a kilometer in diameter
into a continental
landmass would
have one suite of effects.
Into the ocean would have
another suite of effects.
>> Right.
>> And so if you have
an impact into the land,
it's going to inject
huge amounts of dust
into the atmosphere,
cause tremendous fires.
The soot, the
dust, everything is
going to increase the
opacity of the atmosphere,
cause solar radiation to
be reflected back out.
Cannot penetrate.
This would cause a
very abrupt cooling,
which has been referred
to as a cosmic winter.
On the other hand, an
impact into an ocean
is going to loft tremendous
amounts of water vapor
into the atmosphere, which is
the most potent greenhouse gas.
This could cause a
runaway greenhouse effect
until that water
vapor dissipated out
of the atmosphere.
And in the process
of that water vapor
dissipating out
of the atmosphere,
you're going to have
ungodly rainstorms.
You're going to have these
ungodly fluvial events that
could spread around large
regions of the planet.
And I think in some
of the photographs
that you're going to be
including in this discussion,
I've shown a sample of areas
from all around the North
American continent where
the evidence overwhelmingly
supports the notion
that there have
been these gigantic floods.
>> But doesn't that coincide
with all of the flood myths--
>> Oh, yeah.
>> With every culture here
on this planet going back
to 10,500 BC.
This story repeats over
and over again, doesn't it?
>> All over the world.
And when we look at the
research of Marine geologists,
oceanographers who studied
the rise of sea level
at the end of the Ice Age--
because during the Ice Age,
you had more than double the
amount of ice now mantling
the surface of the world.
More than double Greenland
and Antarctica together.
And so you had somewhere around
six million cubic miles of ice
piled up on the
continents, North America
primarily but also
Northwestern Europe.
And because of this, all
of this is water lofted out
of the ocean, frozen into
ice, stored on the continents
for 10,000 15,000 years.
Then when the melt down
came, all of that water
goes back into the ocean,
and it created a differential
of about 400 feet
between the level
that it's at now and
the lowest sea level.
Now, when we look at that
beginning of recorded history,
that 3,000 BC, in
the aftermath of
these tremendous catastrophes
that terminated the great Ice
Age, one of the things
that we know that happened
was that half of the
great megafaunal species
of the planet were
just wiped out.
The woolly mammoths,
the sabertoothed cats,
the giant ground sloths--
>> Overnight.
>> In a geological
sense, overnight.
Yes, it may have been
several waves of extinction,
but the point is that
the extinction was not
a gradual Darwinian
type of process.
It was a catastrophic process.
What that means is that in order
to affect an equivalent species
level extinction
event, you would
have to destroy
every animal on Earth
over 100 pounds in body weight.
Now, an event of that
severity and magnitude,
you think it's going to leave
the human species unaffected?
No.
How they've gotten around that,
of course, is by conjuring up
this fantastical notion that
Paleo Indian hunters hunted,
well, the mammoths
because of a few examples
like it in New Mexico
at Blackwater Draw,
there was a skeleton of
a woolly mammoth found.
Embedded in the mammoth's rib
cage was a Clovis spear point.
>> That's right.
>> Now you extrapolate
from there, oh,
the Clovis were
hunting mammoths,
which they probably were.
But it's a far cry from assuming
that maybe a population of 10
million people-- and this is
pretty much the academically
accepted number for
the late Ice Age--
could exterminate
10 million mammoths.
Now, if you look at
10 million people,
I mean, how many of
those are hunters?
You're looking at elderly,
you're looking at children,
you're looking at the women.
How many of those are hunters?
Now, how could you
possibly even affect that?
And then what happened
to the mastodons?
What happened to the
giant ground sloths?
What happened to the huge Irish
elk with antlers spans up to 10
and 12 feet?
I mean, the list could
go on and on and on.
And when we find their
remains, their remains
are found in peat bogs,
gravel pits, and so on where--
or permafrost.
Now a gravel pit, how does
a gravel pit get there?
Well, a gravel pit is a result
of this tremendously violent,
highly energetic, fluvial event.
Flowing water will
strip bedrock.
It'll bust it up.
And the end result, when
that stuff is carried along
is it creates a gravel deposit.
And so we find bones
in gravel deposits.
The remains of these over
and over and over again
found in gravel deposits.
Peat bogs, where if you
have a low lying area,
the water is swept in.
It's loaded with organic
material and sediment,
and it settles in, and it forms
peat after a period of time.
And in that peat,
you find the remains
of these extinct animals.
So what I'm getting
at here is an event
of that severity is
not going to leave
the human species unaffected.
And I think that when you
have an event like we're
talking about here, I've kind
of come to the conclusion
that you had two
classes of survivors.
There's a genetic
bottleneck suggesting
that the human
population was reduced
to numbers that could have been
vulnerable to mass extinction
of our own species.
The model I think
that's emerging
is that you had in the
aftermath of these events,
bands of scattered survivors who
are isolated from one another.
And when you begin to appreciate
the magnitude of these events,
one of the things
you understand is
that if you had a group
that survived by, say,
by the luck of the
draw, in the aftermath,
they would have no
way of communicating
with anyone else in the world.
They would be isolated.
They would have no
understanding or comprehension
that the whole world
hadn't been destroyed.
Certain people were
given forewarning
of this impending disaster
by somebody who knew.
And I go back to the
Shoemaker-Levy 9 event.
Now, we were able to
predict a year in advance
that these comets, these
nuclei were going to plunge--
>> Impact into Jupiter.
>> Now, yes, now imagine
that we discover a comet
that's on an elliptical orbit,
and we fast forward its orbit,
and we run the orbital elements.
And we discover, you
know what, in 30 years,
this comet is crossing
the Earth's orbit
at the exact moment
Earth is there.
Now, you have 20
years or whatever
to prepare for that event.
What do we do?
Do we try to avert
the catastrophe?
Do we try to ride it out?
What do we do?
Do we inform the
populace at large
that this is about to
happen, or do the people that
have this knowledge, do
they selectively go around
and inform people that if you
do this or that, you'll survive?
The other cosmic
event that I think
is sort of a cosmic
teaching lesson
was the Tunguska Event of 1908.
>> In Russia.
>> In Russia, in Siberia.
June 30, early in
the morning of 1908.
And what we saw there
was Comet Encke probably
spawned a whole family
of meteor streams,
asteroidal bodies,
and cometary bodies
of which Tunguska was one.
Because for one thing, Earth
crosses the Taurid meteor
stream twice each year.
>> It does.
>> Once about Halloween and the
other late June, early July.
So you had the timing
was appropriate for it
to be a member of
the Taurid stream.
And also, its radiant
point in space--
the point at which it appeared
to emanate from space--
also almost perfectly
bullseyed on
where a Taurid object
would be coming from.
So that object did not
strike the Earth like, say,
the famous meteor crater
in Arizona, the big bowl,
kilometer-wide, 600 feet deep.
That was the result of an actual
impact of an iron asteroid
into the ground.
Tunguska was different.
It exploded about five
miles in the atmosphere.
>> It was an
atmospheric explosion.
>> Right.
>> Now, one of the things that
it did was the pressure wave,
the blast wave moving outwards
flattened over 800 square miles
of old growth taiga forest,
which is roughly the area
of most urban cities in America.
Washington DC, if you took
the perimeter highway,
that would be pretty much the
area within that perimeter
highway.
It exploded in the air.
Now, when the US bombed
Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
they set those bombs.
You think of in the tradition
of the conventional sense,
a bomb falls, it hits
the ground, explodes.
They were set to explode
in the atmosphere.
The reason, a greater
radius of destruction.
Because now the ground is not
absorbing a lot of that energy.
It's free to spread out and
destroy buildings in cities
and all of that kind of stuff.
It is estimated that the
force of that Tunguska blast
was around 15,
maybe 20 megatons,
which is in the class
of the largest hydrogen
bonds ever tested
by the United States
back in the '50s and '60s.
Now, when you go back
to the Cold War and you
think about this-- and
I'm getting to the point
here-- when you
think about this,
what did what were the
strategies by the two sides
during the Cold War to be able
to ride out a nuclear war?
Well, you created super hardened
command and control centers.
And where were they?
They were underground.
They built missile silos.
Where were they?
They were underground.
They were buried because by
being buried underground,
they're going to be able to
ride out the blast effects.
>> Survive.
It always occurred
to me that could that
have been part of the motive
for burying Gobekli Tepe.
>> But that would suggest that
these cultures had an advanced
knowledge of astronomy.
>> Yes.
>> And they are able to
peer into the heavens.
>> That's right.
See, it would
follow that if they
had a knowledge of astronomy
that they would also
be able to have knowledge
of navigational skills.
>> So let's take it
to the next level.
Was there a transoceanic
culture before there were boats?
Right.
Because that's what
that would suggest.
>> Well, I mean, that's what
Plato's accounts say and others
would suggest.
I mean, Plato very explicitly
describes a maritime culture
that you may think of as the
Phoenicians or the Minoans.
But anyways, one of
the interesting things
that really intrigued me
there was by sailing West
from the Pillars
of Hercules, you
came to a couple of islands, and
then you sailed beyond those.
And we now know
it's been proven,
the Spartel Bank
hypothesis has proven
that there are sunken
islands immediately
to the West of the
Pillars of Hercules.
>> Now, if we take all of
your research and just lump it
together, this is what
I find interesting.
Let me throw this over
to Josh for a second.
Let me ask you a question, Josh.
The age of the Earth is four
and a half billion years.
>> Sure.
>> Life on Earth, three billion,
two and a half billion years.
That's a pretty long time.
And if we are scrubbing
the planet for 5 to 10
million years at a
time, we're erasing
any evidence of an
advanced civilization
over and over again.
Would it surprise you that
in any slice of that time
span of three
billion years that we
could have had civilizations
rise and go away
and we would never
know it, right?
>> Not at all, especially
after conversations like this.
It seems maybe that's the rule.
It's obvious.
>> Is that the case?
If we look at your
research that we're just
scrubbing the evidence
over and over again.
>> Let me put it this way.
If events on the scale,
magnitude, and severity
of those Younger Dryas
events happened now
and you had archeologists
10,000 years from now,
they would be hard
pressed to find evidence
that we had been here.
>> Except for the Great Pyramid.
It would still be there.
>> Probably.
But that that's the case, right?
If we went 50,000 years in the--
if we had some event happen
here, and ET arrives
in 50,000 years
to check out this beautiful blue
planet, what would they find?
Nothing, right?
>> Not much.
I mean, what's going to exist
in an event like that to me
is megalithic stone work,
which brings us back
to Gobekli Tepe, which brings us
back to the Sphinx, limestone,
bedrock.
It's not a freestanding statue.
It's actually carved
out of virgin bedrock,
so it's part of the bedrock.
And yet, we see all
around it the evidence
of tremendous water flows.
And there's evidence
that the Nile River,
even scientifically
verified evidence
that the Nile River
has experienced
these extraordinary
floods up to depths
of greater than 120 feet
above the modern flood
plain, which would completely
submerge most of the Giza
Plateau.
>> Well, let me ask
you a question, Josh.
Why suppress this knowledge?
If that is the case,
why suppress it?
Isn't it something that
we should all share?
Why do you think--
>> I don't know why
they're suppressing it,
but this is an
illuminating conversation,
but it does fill me with
a little bit of fear.
Like how do we predict the
next extinction level event?
What do we look out for?
I mean, should I make
friends with everyone
I know who works in a bunker?
Like what's next, Randall?
>> Well, first of all--
>> Do you have a bunker?
>> No, but it's not a bad idea.
>> It's not a bad idea.
However--
>> However.
>> However, I would like
to think optimistically.
Something's going to
happen that's going
to trigger an awakening
that our planet is
part of a cosmic ecosystem.
It's part of a
cosmic environment.
And regularly through the
history of this planet,
there have been interactions
between our terrestrial realm
and the cosmic realm.
>> Sure.
>> That's important right there.
This is why I'm excited about
the James Webb Telescope,
the Artemis mission
back to the moon.
It's been proposed that
the moon could be a place
to try to establish
some ark, if you will,
that we could preserve
the knowledge and wisdom
and science of our own
times if there was--
>> A little DNA.
Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Right, right, right.
>> On the other hand, if we
were faced with an event that we
knew based upon the time frame--
I mentioned earlier, if we knew
there was an event coming in 30
years, well, we've got options.
One option would
be is that if we've
got a large asteroid that
we see is on a collision
course with Earth and we have
30 years or 40 or 50 years
of lead time, well we can--
>> Divert it.
>> We can divert it.
yes, we can divert it.
Let's say we discover
we've only got a few years,
and we realize our
possibilities of diverting
it are not necessarily optimum.
So what do we do?
Well, then we have to
create places of refuge
to try to ride it out.
Where would be one
obvious place that we
might try to survive
an event that
could affect large areas
of the entire globe?
Well, I think it's right
out there in front of us.
>> No, I think it's the
bunker in your backyard.
And here's the thing, right now,
NASA's got the DART mission,
and that DART mission is
to deflect an asteroid,
and that's going down
over the next year.
And now, the asteroid
that they are
going to be testing,
if you will,
is not in a collision course
to Earth, but it's a big one.
>> Yeah.
And so if they can just
a fraction of a degree,
right-- if something is on a
collision course with Earth
with the distance
of space in between,
it only takes a
fraction of a degree.
It's just a little
bit of diversion--
>> A nudge.
>> A nudge and we can save
the planet, so there you go.
Randall, thank you so much.
>> Can I just say, if
people want to learn more,
I've got a whole lot of
stuff on RandallCarlson.com.
And it's growing, and
some really cool stuff
is in the pipeline I want
people to become aware of.
>> Randall, you are
the beard of knowledge.
Thank you for
being with us today
here on "Into The Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
Me and Josh will
see you next time.
[THEME MUSIC]